

Week 1 assignemnet

Q1
https://nextmove.de/autobahn-test-tesla-model-x-beats-audi-e-tron-jaguar-i-pace/ 

Context of the chart:
"[NextMove], has tested the three premium electric SUVs Audi e-tron, Tesla Model X 90D and Jaguar I-Pace against each other in a direct consumption test. For this purpose, the “Big Three” of electric mobility were driven in parallel on the German Autobahn. The consumption of the Audi e-tron and Jaguar I-Pace was a quarter higher than that of the Tesla Model X." 

Source is NextMove, who one might think are not an independent observer, as they are "Germany’s leading electric car rental company" . I.e. they possibly favour Tesla if they have some kind of commercial relationship with them. (e.g. they might be doing an "advertorial"/sponsored article, or their fleet may be supplied by Tesla etc.). They certainly have a stake in what the reader thinks of various models after reading the article.

Intended audience is (German mainly) people, interested in electric car premium market, rental and purchase alike. So people with a consumer interest in the data (whether business decision-maker or individual), so people interested in the performance of different products, but not necessarily knowledgeable about this, as say, compared to an audience of industry professionals or general motor enthusiasts might be. The metric of power consumption will communicate key benefits of cost and ecological value to a consumer. 

Audience- how do we know this: as NextMove  (rental company in this market) have supplied the graphic to be displayed on their website, they are comparing the three main products in a market - we can assume that the audience are this actual market, to an extent.  We know they are likely German as the company is a German market-focus and they use Autobahn as their statistic context and units are in metric measurement . 


Q2
Main component is the choice of abstracting and truncating the x-axis starting value to 22 kwh. This seems oddly arbitrary, and is not explained. Conveniently, it is very close to the Tesla model measurement, allows the Tesla bar to be less than half of the rival models, and the difference to be accentuated, even if it is in fact a much smaller difference in numeric reality. (i.e. if the scale had begun at 0 or 10 or 20!). I would argue this chart is using the mechanism "using graphic forms in inappropriate ways (distorting the data)" as well as "hiding relevant data" (i.e. the rest of the x-scale!) in order to mislead. 

It is inappropriate in my view to choose an arbitrary, convenient value as the axis origin, truncating it to benefit the message (as Cairo alerts us to). The chart misleads us to think the difference is more stark than it really is in terms of power consumption.

This really amounts to what Cairo said Tufte called "Lie Factor = Size of effect shown in the graphic/Size of effect in data". 

Another component I would say is intended to mislead is the pseudo-technical visual style of the chart...the colours chosen are styled to look like a car dashboard and not for clarity or functionality sake, more for decorative effect. 

Also, the complexity of the basis of the statistics, despite the chart using a single dimension. E.g. it is a single statistic (Average autobahn speed consumption) - but is not explained or referenced as to why this is the most appropriate statistic . Also it does not clearly explain what kwh units are, or reference why this unit is chosen - this makes me feel it is also "displaying too much data to obscure reality" -- specific units without explaining them!Again "hiding relevant data"  - i.e. the basis of why this statistic is being used.

Further, the highly specific metric they have used is possibly intending to convey "scientific" basis, to persuade the consumer audience as if it is a fact, possibly to flatter them also with technical specifications, as well as to show that NextMove know their stuff!

Also, the Big Three (choice of car models for comparison) are not referenced or sufficiently explained in my view. The arbitrary choices and obfuscation make me believe this chart misleads according to "hiding relevant data to highlight what benefits us". It is not clear if these models are sufficient to make such a comparison - what are the difference in price or age of these models? Is the difference in power consumption really so significant?

Q3

It is strange to me that the subtitle of the graphic "At averag speed of..." is more like explanatory text for the test and would be better placed in text below the chart .

I find the lack of contrast hard to read and not easy perhaps for those with visual impairment.

The title and lack of reference and explanation details are not really very functional, perhaps reflecting the commercial (not informative) focus of the message. It is a curious mix of complex and simplifying aspects for a chart. 


